So, we connected our application
with the database using Mongoose in the last lecture.
But wait, what actually is Mongoose?
Well, Mongoose is an object data modeling library
for MongoDB and Node JS,
providing a higher level of abstraction.
So, it's a bit like the relationship
between Express and Node,
so Express is a layer of abstraction over regular Node,
while Mongoose is a layer of abstraction
over the regular MongoDB driver.
And by the way, an object data modeling library
is just a way for us to write JavaScript code
that will then interact with a database.
So, we could just use a regular MongoDB driver
to access our database, and it would work just fine,
but instead we use Mongoose,
because it gives us a lot more functionality out of the box,
allowing for faster and simpler development
of our applications.
So, some of the features Mongoose give us
is schemas to model our data and relationship,
easy data validation, a simple query API,
middleware, and much more.
In Mongoose, a schema is where we model our data,
so where we describe the structure of the data,
default values, and validation.
We then take that schema and create a model out of it.
And the model is basically a wrapper
around the schema, which allows us to actually interface
with the database in order to create, delete, update,
and read documents.
All right, so this was just a very quick introduction.
Now, let's actually go ahead
and create a simple schema and model.